The Project Gutenberg eBook of A visit to the Roman catacombs
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
    
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
before using this eBook.
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms

of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
﻿The Project Gutenberg eBook of A visit to the Roman catacombs

    

This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
In every field of human endeavor, he that is first must perpetually live
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
in the white light of publicity. ¶Whether the leadership be vested in a
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
man or in a manufactured product, emulation and envy are ever at work.
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
¶In art, in literature, in music, in industry, the reward and the
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
punishment are always the same. ¶The reward is widespread recognition;
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
the punishment, fierce denial and detraction. ¶When a man’s work becomes
before using this eBook.
a standard for the whole world, it also becomes a target for the shafts

of the envious few. ¶If his work be merely mediocre, he will be left
Title: A visit to the Roman catacombs
severely alone—if he achieve a masterpiece, it will set a million

tongues a wagging. ¶Jealousy does not protrude its forked tongue at the

artist who produces a commAuthor: James Spencer Northcote
onplace painting. ¶Whatsoever you write, or

paint, or play, or sing, or build, no one will strive to surpass or to
Release date: October 21, 2023 [eBook #71927]
slander you, unless your work be stamped with the seal of genius. ¶Long,

long, after a great work, or a good work has been done, those who are
Language: English
disappointed or envious, continue to cry out that it can not be done.

¶Spiteful little voices in the domain of art were raised against our own
Original publication: London: S. Anselms's Society, 1891
Whistler as a mountebank, long after the big world had acclaimed him its

greatest artistic genius. ¶Multitudes flocked to Bayreuth to worship at
Credits: deaurider and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive)
the musical shrine of Wagner, while the little group of those whom he

had dethroned and displaced, argued angrily that he was no musician at
